# Exploring Social Media Trends to Get Insights on the Sentiments of the people of Bangladesh in the Time of COVID-19
## By Md. Kafi Khan, Sakil Sarker, and Md Nayeem
Studying Social Media to understand human psychology has been actively researched throughout the past decade. It is perceptible that analyzing social media data has the potential to provide valuable information about the public. When COVID-19 hit Bangladesh, a densely populated developing country in South Asia, there was about an immediate lockdown and people were more addicted to social media to express their opinion, views, and thoughts. This brought an opportunity to study the change in the psychology of the people during the pandemic through these social media data. But the availability of proper social media data has always been a challenge. In a country like Bangladesh, where people extensively use Facebook as social media, the challenge is even more evident as collecting data from Facebook is not easy as other social media that provides free APIs. In this extensive thematic study, we have addressed this issue by collecting posts of 40 regular Facebook users from March 15 (the surge of COVID-19 in Bangladesh) to May 30 taking their consent, and identified some temporal trends using the Bag of Words algorithm (a tool from NLP). We further conducted online interviews with the participants about the identified trends and how that affected their psychology. With both quantitative and qualitative analysis, we found some psychological trends (being more religious, mental health issues) among the people throughout the course of the pandemic.

**Keywords: Social Media Psychology, Aftershock of Covid-19 on social media, Social Media Analytics and Societal Behavior, Bangladesh**
